{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252
{\fonttbl
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0 Adobe Garamond Pro Bold;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0 Adobe Garamond Pro;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq0 Wingdings;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red31\green78\blue121;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\level1 heading 1;}
{\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\level2 heading 2;}
{\s3\li1350\fi-270\kerning24\fs30\lang1033\level3 heading 3;}
{\s4\li1890\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level4 heading 4;}
{\s5\li2430\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level5 heading 5;}
{\s6\li2970\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level6 heading 6;}
{\s7\li3510\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level7 heading 7;}
{\s8\li4050\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level8 heading 8;}
{\s9\li4590\fi-270\kerning24\fs27\lang1033\level9 heading 9;}
}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0\qc {\f1\fs120\cf1 Promoting and Defending the Family}{\f1\fs120\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f1\fs88\cf1 Where are we going?\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs64\cf1 Know}{\f2\fs64\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 Prophetic teachings and principles related to marriage and family which have public implications\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 How to discuss these issues in an informed and respectful way\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 How to share true principles and promote those measures which are designed to maintain and strengthen the family\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 How to protect our families and others from abuse\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 Our accountability before God for fulfilling family responsibilities\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs64\cf1 Feel}{\f2\fs64\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 A responsibility to promote measures which are designed to maintain and strengthen the }{\f2\fs64\cf1 family\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 Confident }{\f2\fs64\cf1 in your ability to both defend your own family and the family in society\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs64\cf1 Do}{\f2\fs64\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li720\fi-720 {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs64 \'d8\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnfs64{\pntxtb \'d8}}{\f2\fs64\cf1 Share and defend important truths regarding the family\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 The Lord\'92s Plan should be Our Plan}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 We }{\f2\fs56\cf1 need to boldly defend the Lord\'92s revealed doctrines describing marriage, families, the divine roles of men and women, and the importance of homes as sacred places\'97even when the world is shouting in our ears that these principles are outdated, limiting, or no longer relevant. Everyone, no matter what their marital circumstance or number of children, can be defenders of the Lord\'92s plan described in the family proclamation. If it is the Lord\'92s plan, it should also be our plan}{\f2\fs56\cf1 ! }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Bonnie }{\f2\fs56\cf2 Oscarson}{\f2\fs56\cf2 )}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Parr Time Discipleship?}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs40\cf1 The day is gone when you can be a quiet and comfortable Christian. Your religion is not just about showing up for church on Sunday. It is about showing up as a true disciple from Sunday morning through Saturday night\'9724/7! There is no such thing as a \'93part-time\'94 disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus invited anyone who wants to be His disciple to take up His cross and follow Him.4 Are you ready to join the ranks?\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs40\cf1 Or will you be ashamed of the gospel? Will you be ashamed of your Lord and His plan?5 Will you yield to voices of those who would have you join them on the popular side of contemporary history?\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs40\cf2 (Russell M. Nelson)}{\f2\fs40\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Disciples are Defenders}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 Disciples of the Lord are defenders of marriage. We cannot yield. History is not our judge. A secular society is not our judge. God is our judge! For each of us, Judgment Day will be held in God\'92s own way and time}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Russell M. Nelson)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Opposition as an Opportunity}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 In 1983 the First Presidency wrote to Church leaders, \'93Opposition may be in itself an opportunity. Among the continuing challenges faced by our missionaries is a lack of interest in religious matters and in our message. These criticisms create \'85 interest in the Church. \'85 This provides an opportunity [for members] to present the truth to those whose attention is thus directed toward us.\'94 }{\ul\f2\fs56\cf1 1}{\f2\fs56\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 We can take advantage of such opportunities in many ways: a kind letter to the editor, a conversation with a friend, a comment on a }{\ul\f2\fs56\cf1 blog}{\f2\fs56\cf1 , or a reassuring word to one who has made a disparaging comment. We can answer with love those who have been influenced by misinformation and prejudice\'97who are \'93kept from the truth because they know not where to find it\'94 (}{\ul\f2\fs56\cf1 D&C 123:12}{\f2\fs56\cf1 ). I assure you that to answer our accusers in this way is never weakness. It is Christian courage in action}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Elder Robert D. Hales)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Tolerance and Commitment to Truth}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 Our tolerance and respect for others and their beliefs does not cause us to abandon our commitment to the truths we understand and the covenants we have made. That is a third absolute truth: We do not abandon the truth and our }{\f2\fs56\cf1 covenants\'85\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 While we must practice tolerance and respect for others and their beliefs, including their constitutional freedom to explain and advocate their positions, we are not required to respect and tolerate wrong behavior. }{\f2\fs56\cf1  }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Dallin H. Oaks)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Contribute to Reasoned Discussion}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 As believers, we should also frame our arguments and positions in ways that contribute to the reasoned discussion and accommodation that are essential to democratic government in a pluralistic society. }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Dallin H. Oaks)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Many have never heard}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 Many of your neighbors, colleagues, and friends will have never heard logical and inspired truths about the importance of marriage as God Himself defined it. You will have many opportunities to strengthen understanding of the Lord\'92s side of that argument by the eloquence of your examples, both as individuals and as families}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Russell M. Nelson)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Respond as the Savior}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 When }{\f2\fs56\cf1 we respond to our accusers as the Savior did, we not only become more Christlike, we invite others to feel His love and follow Him as well}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Elder Robert D. Hales)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Respond as the Savior II}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 More regrettable than the Church being accused of not being Christian is when Church members react to such accusations in an un-Christlike }{\f2\fs56\cf1 way!\'85\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 Surely our Heavenly Father is saddened\'97and the devil laughs\'97when we contentiously debate doctrinal differences with our Christian neighbors}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Robert D. Hales)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 The Best Response will include Love}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 To }{\f2\fs56\cf1 my inquiring sister and all who seek to know how we should respond to our accusers, I reply, we love them. Whatever their race, creed, religion, or political persuasion, if we follow Christ and show forth His courage, we must love them. We do not feel we are better than they are. Rather, we desire with our love to show them a better way\'97the way of Jesus Christ. }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Robert D. Hales)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 We Need Heavenly Father\'92s Daughters}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 All of us\'97men, women, young adults, youth, and boys and girls\'97have the Lord and His Church to defend, to protect, and to spread throughout the earth. We need more of the distinctive, influential voices and faith of women. We need you to learn the doctrine and to understand what we believe so that you can bear your testimonies about the truth of all things\'97whether those testimonies be given around a campfire at girls\'92 camp, in a testimony meeting, in a blog, or on Facebook. Only you can show the world what women of God who have made covenants look like and believe.\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 None of us can afford to stand by and watch the purposes of God be diminished and pushed aside. I invite particularly you sisters here and throughout the Church to seek the guidance of heaven in knowing what you can do to let your voice of faith and testimony be heard. }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Elder Ballard)\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 We Need Heavenly Father\'92s Daughters II}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 Sisters, I am grateful to be a woman in these latter days. We have opportunities and possibilities which no other generation of women has had in the world. Let us help build the kingdom of God by standing up boldly and being defenders of marriage, parenthood, and the home. The Lord needs us to be brave, steadfast, and immovable warriors who will defend His plan and teach the upcoming generations His truths.\par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf2 (Bonnie }{\f2\fs56\cf2 Oscarson}{\f2\fs56\cf2 )}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s1\li270\fi-270\kerning24\fs42\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\b\f2\fs88\cf1 Laws and Executive Action}{\b\f2\fs88\cf1 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 First, when believers in Jesus Christ take their views of truth into the public square, they must seek the inspiration of the Lord to be selective and wise in choosing which true principles they seek to promote by law or executive action. Generally, they should refrain from seeking laws or administrative action to facilitate beliefs that are distinctive to believers, such as the enforcement of acts of worship, even by implication. Believers can be less cautious in seeking government action that would serve principles broader than merely facilitating the practice of their beliefs, such as laws concerning public health, safety, and morals}{\f2\fs56\cf1 . }{\f2\fs56\cf2 (Dallin H. Oaks)}{\f2\fs56\cf2 \par 
}\pard\plain\ltrpar\s2\li810\fi-270\kerning24\lang1033\li0\fi0 {\f2\fs56\cf1 \par 
}
}